W-21433121 agent network 2.0 content ie (#660)
mulesoft/docs-code-builder: agent-network/2.0/modules/ROOT/pages/af-troubleshoot-agent-networks.adoc

= Troubleshoot Agent Networks
:page-aliases: anypoint-code-builder::af-troubleshoot-agent-networks.adoc, anypoint-code-builder::af-troubleshoot-anypoint-code-builder.adoc

Resolve common agent network errors and connectivity issues by enabling verbose logging, message logging policies, and distributed tracing. Using logs and distributed traces, you can observe agents and MCP servers and see how requests flow through brokers, which tools and policies apply, and where failures or latency originate.

[NOTE]
Use Agent Visualizer to xref:agent-visualizer::troubleshoot-agent-network.adoc[view metrics, logs, and traces] for agents and MCP servers in your network.

== Enable Logging to Debug Agent Brokers

Enable logging and log levels from CloudHub 2.0 or Runtime Fabric:

. In Runtime Manager, navigate to the application for the agent broker.
. Choose one of these options to configure logging:
+
* xref:cloudhub-2::ch2-manage-app-logs.adoc#configure-log-levels-and-categories[CloudHub 2.0]
* xref:runtime-fabric::deploy-to-runtime-fabric.adoc#configure-logging-and-log-levels[Runtime Fabric]

> . For `INSECURE-LOGGING` set the log level to `DEBUG`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. For `INSECURE-LOGGING`, set the log level to `DEBUG`.
```

[IMPORTANT]
`INSECURE-LOGGING` is for content that can potentially contain sensitive information, such as LLM reasoning, and inputs and outputs from agents and assets defined in your agent network. This is very likely to contain sensitive information, such as personally identifiable information (PII). Make sure to disable `INSECURE-LOGGING` after you finish troubleshooting.

[[enable-message-logging]]
== Enable Message Logging Policy

Edit `agent-network.yaml` to set message logging for MCP servers and agents.

> Message logging uses the xref:gateway::policies-included-message-logging.adoc[Omni Gateway Message Logging policy]. In the `connection` section of the agent or MCP server instance you want to log, add the following logging policy inside `policies`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Message logging uses the xref:gateway::policies-included-message-logging.adoc[Omni Gateway Message Logging policy]. In the `connection` section of the agent or MCP server instance you want to log, add this logging policy inside `policies`:
```

* In the managed Omni Gateways, verify that you've enabled Distributed Tracing for ingress and egress.

=== Issue: No Agent Network Commands in Anypoint Code Builder

If you installed Anypoint Code Builder successfully, but you don’t see agent network commands in the interface, verify that you have the latest version of the Anypoint Extension Pack. Then, restart VS Code.

=== Issue: No Agent Network Deployment Targets

If you attempt to deploy an agent network, but you don’t see any deployment targets in Anypoint Code Builder or Anypoint CLI, then you need to set up your target deployment space and set up gateways. For instructions, see xref:af-get-started.adoc[Get Started with Agent Networks].

=== Issue: Changes Don't Take Effect After Redeployment

If you update `agent-network.yaml` or any `.agent` files but changes aren't reflected after you redeploy, the deployment used the last compiled `target/` directory. Every source change requires a full rebuild.

After any source file change, run the full pipeline:

. Build
. Publish
. Deploy

=== Error: "Asset belongs to another project" (Error 2006)

> If the project build succeeds but it fails to publish with error `2006`, your registry keys conflict with another project in the org. Registry keys are unique across an org, so you can't copy a project and rename only the broker. This leaves the original registry key prefixes, and the first project owns those Exchange asset IDs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the project build succeeds but it fails to publish with error `2006`, your registry keys conflict with another project in the org. Registry keys are unique across an org, so you can't copy a project and rename only the broker. Renaming only the broker leaves the original registry key prefixes, and the first project owns those Exchange asset IDs.
```

To resolve this conflict:

* Prefix every registry key with a unique network short ID (for example, `myNetRegistry` instead of `registry`).
* If you own the conflicting project, remove or delete it before you publish the new project.

=== Error: CrashLoopBackOff or Exit 139 with No Clear Error

If your deployment keeps restarting without a clear error, the broker is most likely crashing on a bad upstream connection before your agent network configuration is parsed. Common causes include:

* An expired API key
* An incorrect MCP server URL
* An MCP server returning JSON instead of SSE
* A missing A2A agent card

Before you deploy, validate every connection with live probes. Don't troubleshoot your agent network configuration until you confirm all upstream connections are healthy.

=== Error: "Cannot complete task due to issue accessing reasoning engine"

This is a generic error that the broker issues when the LLM fails. To troubleshoot this error, <<enable-message-logging,enable the message logging policy>> on the LLM instance, and then review the logs to determine the cause of the error.

=== Issue: LLM Responds Without Calling the Agent or Tool

> If the broker responds with information from the LLM's training data instead of delegating to your agent or calling an MCP tool, the LLM's instructions aren't explicit enough about delegation. This is especially common with Gemini on widely-known topics.

Reviewer: Is it that the LLM's instructions aren't explicit enough, or is it the broker's instructions?

In the broker's system instructions:

* Add a hard directive, such as `MUST delegate IMMEDIATELY` and `NEVER answer yourself`.
* Map every intent to a specific named action.

=== Error: "HTTP error 404: Agent card not found at /.well-known/agent-card.json"

You can encounter this error in two different scenarios:

. The agent card URL is incorrect. In this case:
+
* Check that the URL you set on the connection ends with a `/`.
* Use a browser or Postman to request the agent card URL by appending `.well-known/agent-card.json` to the connection URL, for example, `https://ping-id-agent-url/pingid/.well-known/agent-card.json`.

> . The A2A agent is not configured to use A2A protocol version 1.0.0. In this case:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. The A2A agent doesn't use A2A protocol version 1.0.0. In this case:
```
